One, two, three, four, five, six. Testing,
testing. One, two, three, four, five, six.
Testing. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Six,
five, four, three, two, one. Testing, testing.
This is testing, testing, testing, testing,
testing. Hello. Testing here. Okay. This is
September the 4th, I believe. And we are in room 207
of the Evans Library, and I have the pleasure and
honor of chatting with Dr. Paige Morgan, a
longtime neighbor and friend, and today we're
chatting about his... experiences as an A&M
former student. Paige, to begin with, introduce
yourself to anyone who might listen or read a
transcript. Describe family background,
growing up, where'd you go to high school. Just
talk about yourself before you came to A&M. So, my
name is Paige Wesley Morgan. I grew up in the area
around Wichita Falls, Texas, although I was born
in Arizona. My mother was a member of an old
ranching family in northwest Texas and I went to
high school in Iowa Park. It was a small place but
had a fairly progressive high school. I got to take
algebra and trigonometry and uh, chemistry and
some things like that in high school. So that was
all very positive. And, uh, early on then, I guess I
was influenced by being in the 4-H club and, and,
uh, my 4-H club leader, uh, county assistant, a
county, county agent. brought me down to A&M
several times for the 4-H club roundup, convinced
me that I needed to go to A&M, and that's sort of how
it all got started then. So you had been to visit.
What impression did A&M make on you when you came to
visit? Well, being from a rather small place,
although A&M was not very big at the time, it seemed
big to me, and I guess it had a reputation and an aura
about it and its graduates and a loyalty that I saw
in them and another thing that was in my family
background was I'd had two uncles and two cousins
come to A&M before I did none of them graduated none
of them really got close to graduating so when I
decided to come to A&M The ones of those people that
were still living all said, you know, you're our
last hope for ever, a graduate from A&M. So that was
one of the things in my background. And there was no
fish camp in those days, was there? No. Was there
anything before enrolling? We came a week before
the upperclassmen came. And we had our freshman
orientation. I remember there were no parents
stayed around for that you know I mean they all uh
most of the parents didn't are we on most of the
parents didn't even uh bring their children you
know their sons they just they a lot of them
hitchhiked here and road buses and train and
everything and got here the best they could and and
I remember when that week was over the
upperclassmen that were our uh our company
officers told us that the upperclassmen are
coming in this weekend if you got any good judgment
at all you'll get out of here and not come back until
the very last minute on Sunday night so that was
what we all did we all hadn't planned to leave but we
were all pretty encouraged where did you go My
roommate and I were both from Iowa Park and we
hitchhiked home and hitchhiked back and got here
in the middle of the night on Sunday night. Started
our first year. Now when you came at the beginning
of that week, how did you get down here? Did mom and
dad bring you or a relative? His mother brought us.
Okay. My mother was a school teacher and she'd
already started to work I guess that so she
couldn't get off. I guess my dad was not as
impressed with this whole activity as she was. Did
you get any advice from anybody, parents or
anybody else, before you left? Did they tell you
anything to do or not do? Do you remember? I can't
remember that. I remember that my roommate's
mother who was a widow, was a little, you know,
emotional when she left us down here, but other
than that, I don't remember really. It
seems like one of my uncles told me that he expected
me to, you know, represent the family well or
something like that, and that was about it. Did,
what did you think you were going to do in terms of
major and long time future when you at that point at
that point in my life that uncle that i just
mentioned was one of the dominant male figures and
he was a successful rancher and i kind of
envisioned myself as becoming a junior partner
and getting my mother had a part of the family
estate and you know i sort of thought that i would
move into the ranching business by that means and
but other than that the other thing that was in my
head was could I make it you know could I go to what by
our standards was a major college and graduate so
being from a small high school not having much how
many in senior class about 42 42
And I presume you were like I, that you had not
traveled much around the region. Well, not in
academic circles at all. My father's father lived
in California when I was in high school, when I was
in school, grade school and high school. And we'd
gone out there a couple of times. So that was my
extent of traveling was two or three trips to
California. Do you remember what you brought with
you when you came to enroll? What, how much stuff?
I guess I had a small suitcase and a
foot locker, and I remember I had a radio and
maybe one change of civilian clothes they told us
to take not bring anything else that we couldn't
wear it anyway and so Now this was the fall of 19 51 51
and when your
when your roommate's mother drove away Y'all were
then in the hands of what, seniors or sophomores?
Juniors and seniors. Juniors and seniors. This
was a time that the Corps had just come back maybe a
year or two before, maybe just that year, from
Bryan Air Force Base. And so we were still in
outfits that had cadre of upperclassmen and then
we were all freshmen. And there were no sophomores
in those units until either after Christmas or
sometime in the middle of the spring semester we
finally got two or three sophomores. Do you have
any idea how you got assigned to your outfit? What
was it? What was that outfit like? I can't remember
for sure. I think we had some choice of which unit
that we would be in. And I don't, it seems to me like
that that county agent whose name was Bill
Pallmeyer and who called me just a few days ago,
he's still alive, still, you know, interested in
my wife and I. By the way, she was in the 4-H club,
too, so he knew her and I both. I think he was in the
Transportation Corps, so I think I may have chosen
that because of him. Now, what outfit was it? Well,
it was just A Transportation Corps. I don't think
the unit exists anymore. So it didn't have a letter
or a G-1 or H-5? No, it was A. Then... in a battalion
it was Company A and there was B, C, and D but they
were not the Transportation Corps they were other
well I guess there was at the my freshman year there
may have been two well I'm not sure I don't know. And
you were assigned to dorm space where?
The dorm right across the street from the uh,
exchange store, the, uh, uh, beside, uh, G.F.
Gondblank. That's not, that's not the Zell, is it?
No, no, it was over by the, uh, Sabisa. Yeah, yeah.
Uh, I, what was the name of that? We'll think about
that later. I've forgotten that. Uh, describe how
the upperclassmen whipped you fish into shape.
How did they get y'all began to break you in and
orient you? Well, they, the people that were our
officers in our units were pretty benevolent,
kind-hearted types. They picked them, I think,
for that. They were trying to prepare us to learn
everything that we needed to learn and to adopt the
sort of mind state that we had to go through this so
this was sort of the way I guess the way we viewed it
was that we were sort of running a long gauntlet
that was going to be a year long you know and we were
going to be beset by all sorts of challenges from
every direction and we were sort of preparing
ourselves to survive. But I remember the first
week we were here, we were marching everywhere we
would go for some sort of an orientation meeting or
something. We were marching. They marched us down
Military Walk from in front of Sevesa there, and we
went by Walton Hall, which was the dorm that the
athletes were in in those days. And I guess we were
going to Gine Hall for some kind of a meeting. And so
all these very irreverent athletes were hanging
out the windows there on Walton. Was it Walton?
Anyway, they were yelling at us, you know, your
mommies are, you know, you go home to mommies, you
know, and you'll never, None of you will be here in
six weeks. And look around. Everybody that you can
see will have quit before Christmas and
everything. And unfortunately, a lot of what they
were saying was true. There was a big dropout
during the first year that I was here. And during
those first few days, was there much hazing and so
forth that went on? No, not really. I don't
remember. They taught us how to whip out or
introduce ourselves and things like that, and
they said, now I'm going to imitate what a
sophomore is going to do to you, you know, and that
sort of thing. It was not, I don't remember that as
being particularly terrifying, but the first
sophomore I met, I remember that was particularly
terrifying. Describe that. Well, you know, we
were, it could have been that first Sunday night or
maybe the first Monday night after school started
and we had to go someplace and come back and we were
stopped out in front of the dorm and stood out there
at attention for what seemed like a year, probably
was 15 minutes, you know, and people walking
around us describing how poorly we were dressed
and how our shoeshines were inadequate and
everything, you know. Now, did you go through
academic registration? They had registration in
those days, but there was, this was just after the
Korean War had started. And so my class was a
record-sized class. I'm sure there were a lot of
people who decided to go to A&M that were hoping to
stay out of the war. And so when we went through
registration, it was at the end of that week of
orientation. It was before the upperclassmen had
gotten back. And they had pre-assigned us,
depending on which major we chose, and I guess in my
case it had to do with whether or not I'd had
trigonometry
and plane geometry and chemistry those were the
three deciding courses I believe and since I had
well they put us all of the people that were
majoring in wildlife science and range
management and a couple of other majors all in the
same block of sections so we just got a you know an
assignment of came straight out of the catalog Do
you remember what your major title was then? Were
you, was it just agriculture or was it more
specific for you? Well, during that week of
orientation, I was wavering back and forth
between some sort of engineering and something to
do with agriculture. And I finally decided to
major in, range management because of the family
connection to the ranching industry so I actually
chose range management as a freshman and stayed
with that all the way through my four years it was
called ranging the department and the degree were
called range and forestry and Stephen F. Austin
had the only accredited forestry program in the
state at the time and A&M wanted it I guess and so
they had this degree called a range in forestry and
I think we took maybe two forestry courses had one
person that taught in that area. Do you have any
idea what your academic load was that first
semester? 15, 18 hours? No, it was 19 hours. 19?
Uh-huh. And describe your impression, your first
impression of those courses and the instructors.
Well, I guess I was
very concerned to start out with that, you know,
everything was going to be extremely difficult
and and I did have a hard time with English I
remember I didn't do particularly well in English
but right off the bat I began to take quizzes and do
fairly well and I found out that a lot of people
around me in my outfit and others that were in that
section were not doing so well and so I began to
realize that you know that that not only could I
survive but I could actually do you know above
average academically and that was a great relief
to me you know when the first grades came out and I
well they had exemptions in those days so I was
exempted from all of my finals I think except one or
something like that and then I made you know a
distinguished student uh GPA at the end of that
semester. So that began to kind of build up my
confidence. Did you have some instructors and or
courses that first semester that you now realize
were significant to you later in the impression
they made on you?
I've thought about that some since I scheduled to
do this and I'm not sure now whether they were the
first semester or the second semester but I had a
biology course with
Mr. Dobson who or Dr. Dobson and he made a really
good impression on me and I remember one time he
asked me after must have been the second semester
because he asked me what my GPA was and I was
apparently a little having a little ego problem at
the time you know so I told him and I know that I was
feeling really proud and he said oh Paige you can do
better than that so Then, you know, that made me
think, well, you know he's right. I could do better
than that. So he was one of the people that had
students over for dinner occasionally. And that
was a big milestone in my life, you know, was to
actually visit with the professor on a social
level rather than just to see him in the classroom,
to meet his family, to meet his kids and
everything. That made a big impression on me. And,
uh, were there, what about English or math or
science? Well, uh, the, uh, I don't I remember some
of the English professors I've looked back at the
math I can't identify who I had as a math instructor
but I had Mr. Hedgecock and Greer and Shepherd I
remember in English and all of them were probably
pretty tolerant of semi-literate West Texas kids
you know and I probably learned a lot about writing
in those under those people even though I didn't
you know make I can't remember I must have made a B in
one under one of them but anyway I remember them I
remember Victor Whining was in the English
department And I had been a debater in high school.
And so I got on the debate team here at A&M and did
that for a couple of years. And that was a real
enlightening experience. And all of those
faculty members were full-time faculty. No such
thing then as what we today call TAs. No. No, they
were all. And about how large were the sections in
number of students? Any big ones? Chemistry was
really big. I remember that. Like over a hundred, I
guess. It was in the big lecture room in the
chemistry building. I don't remember any other
big sections. 40 or 50 students was probably the
largest of anything. And did you feel that the
faculty members were accessible if you wanted to
talk to them? Well, I guess I did, but I didn't
really ever do that very much.
Some of the faculty, I remember one of the English
professors insisted that we make appointments
and come by and talk to him. And that was good for a
young kid from a small town.
But the faculty didn't act aloof or distant or
anything like that. you know they all seem to be
very human approachable people uh the in in terms
of academics then you didn't come close to
flunking anything you were doing well did you feel
begin to feel that your high school had prepared
you pretty well yes i did and i remember one time
thinking that oh i i after a year or so I was invited
to speak to a assembly
back at my high school and I remember encouraging
the kids to you know to take the hard courses in high
school don't wait until you go to college to take
trig and calculus or chemistry or biology or you
know and and I remember that that I had the
impression that I didn't really communicate that
very well. Most of the kids weren't as serious
about it as they should have been. Now, meanwhile,
describe what life was like in the dormitory, and
what was a typical class day? What time did y'all
get up? What happened when? Begin at daylight and
take me through 10, 30, 11 o'clock at night on
typical class day. Well, I'm not sure about actual
times, but it, I imagine that we got up about 6 30,
and we had about 15 minutes from the time we got up
until we were due in formation. out in front of the
dorm, and we would march into Sabisa and eat
breakfast, and then we had a little time before
classes, the first class of the day, and since we
were carrying 18 or 19 hours, all of us, well, we had
a, and in my section, everybody had two or three
laps, so We were busy most of the day going to
classes and you came back to the dorm and you had a
formation for lunch. You marched into the
building for lunch and of course we all sat
together as a unit and there was assigned
upperclassmen on each table and we learned to give
meal service to the upperclassmen and not eat
until we served them and uh everything and um one
thing that that you know that was interesting was
we had a number of waiters in our unit and those were
special guys you know they were they were the
poorest of the poor I guess you know they were
working their way through A&M and and so they would
had to get up earlier than we did and everything but
I remember a lot of those guys were really
hard-working, serious kids, you know. Did they
also kind of help your outfit, maybe get a little
extra serving every now and then? The freshmen
were all encouraged to stay in the dining hall
until they had eaten as much as they wanted, you
know, so the last people to leave every meal were
always the freshmen. and our waiter friends would
be sure that there was plenty of stuff left on our
table when the upperclassmen left. Now how did you
and your buddies learn all of the vocabulary for
the food and everything? the nicknames, were you
taught that? We were taught that mostly during
that week of orientation and it's amazing how fast
you can learn if you're under the threat you know
nothing bad ever really happened to anyone but it
just seemed like if somebody was yelling at you you
could learn faster than if you just could either do
it or not do it Did you have enough time to actually
to eat? Yes, yes. Mainly because there were only
one or two upperclassmen per table. And it was, you
know, at the time, I guess it seemed fairly
traumatic. But looking back on it, it was fairly
amusing, you know, to some of the things that
happened and everything. It wasn't that bad. Were
there any foods that you remember that were new to
you?
They had combinations of things uh well I guess I
had never eaten uh
trying to remember they they had tamales they had a
Mexican meal that had tamales in it and beans and
rice and I've forgotten what else you know I don't
think I'd ever had many tamales in my whole life you
know maybe at least that wasn't a major thing that
we ate and uh they had cream puffs but the freshmen
rarely ever got to eat cream puffs so. Were there
kush questions in your outfit? Yes. Do you
remember some of your pet kush questions? Well
there were certain kinds of cush questions for
which there was no acceptable correct answer Such
as? How many tiles are there in the bottom of the
swimming pool and even if you went over and counted
them you were not going to win that cush question
you know you were gonna that was the kind of
question they asked when the upperclassmen
wanted your dessert so that but that was okay Was
there any, say on desserts, was there any dessert
that was kind of everybody's favorite that y'all
really looked forward to? Well, I think cream
puffs fit into that category because the
upperclassmen always ask difficult questions.
When they had cream puffs and the freshmen, I don't
know whether we really liked them or not. It was
just that we thought that they were good because we
couldn't get one. And what were the least favorite
foods?
Or were there any? Well, I remember they served
stewed tomatoes with bread, and there were
usually a lot of that left.
I can't, I can't remember what else. Now when you
went home, either Thanksgiving, Christmas, or
Easter, did you, like I've heard a few others,
forget and use some of the Aggie lingo at the table
at home and almost get in trouble?
I, I don't remember doing that, but I remember
that, you know, people talking about doing it, and
some of the Some of the nomenclature was pretty
crude, and I could visualize getting in trouble if
you used some of that. Now, as your routine of study
began to take shape, if you had any free time during
the day, where did you go to spend that time,
whether to study or to just relax? Where did you go?
Well, I mostly went back to my room because we
didn't have many upperclassmen in our dorm and uh,
uh, the, the dorm was not a, you know, not a
stressful place to be during the day. And uh, I
don't remember hanging out at, well, one thing
about it was that if you were in your dorm, our dorms
were off limits to sophomores and that was one of
the, few places on campus that you couldn't become
the source of amusement for two.